e-DAC Linux Lab Re-Exam                                                                                                                                             [ Marks 40 ]						

Instructions::-- All questions are compulsory.
              -- Create a folder. Foldername should be your Full PRN_Full Name.
              -- Create 2 files,under Linux, one with .txt extension   
                 another file with .sh extension.                                               
              -- These files will be in the folder you have created.
              -- Save answers of Q1 and Q2 in .txt file and answers of
                 Q3, Q4 and Q5 in .sh file. Do not copy the output.
              -- Use command zip , to zip the folder and mail it on the given 
                 email-id.
              -- Your solutions should contain correct question number.
              -- Please follow the instructions strictly.


Q.1. Write appropriate commands for the following		 		[ Marks 10 ]
                                                                       
1. Print the present working directory.
2. Copy file player.txt from directory named old to diectory named new.
   Both directories old and new are subdirectories in your home directory.
   Use only one command.
3. List all files from your current directory with extension starting
   from letter c.
4. Delete file EmployeeData.txt.
5. Rename file officeDetails.dat as ImpData.dat.
6. Display all running processes in your current directory.
7. Give proper permissions for the file named books.dat    
    write and execute permission for Owner of the file
    read permission for Group
    read and execute permission for Others.
8. Directory by name DAC2019 contains old data. Delete this directory.
9. Create a hardlink for file named salary.dat in your current directory.
10.Check if file by name info.dat exsists in your current directory.



Q.2. Write appropriate commands for the following                   			[ Marks 10 ]

1. Write a command to count number of lines in the file named
   ImpData.
2. Command to sort the data in reverse order.
3. In the file containing following data 
    apple
    mango
    apple
    banana
    orange
    mango
    strawberry
    banana
    apple
    Print only unique lines.
4. There are 2 files by name OldStudents and NewStudents. Write
   a command to append contents of NewStudents under the contents
   of OldStudents.
5.  Display first 4 processess with maximum CPU utilization.



Q.3. Write a shell script for following requirement                      			[ Marks 6 ]
  
    Accept a number from user and print its table.
      


Q.4. Write a shell script for the following                             			[ Marks 6 ]

    Write a shell utility to copy top ‘x’ lines from a file                     
    into the file by name fileCopy.txt file. Accept number of 
    lines and filename from user.


Q.5. Write a menu driven program to accept two numbers and choice from  		[ Marks 8 ]
    user (like add/sub/multiply), and according to user choice
    do the needful operation and print result. eg if numbers accepted
    are 2 and 3. Utility should display as follows..

     1.Add
     2.Multiply
     3.Subtract
     Enter the choice....
     
     Perform actions according to the choice entered by user and print
     the result.
   
    